DISTRIBUTION SERVICES AGREEMENT
This agreement is made as of August 3, 2000 , between CorePharma Inc . , a Tennessee corporation ("CP"), and CRD Logistics , Inc ., an Ohio corporation ("CRD").
Background Information
1. CP is a Tennessee -based company formed primarily to acquire and market a portfolio of niche pharmaceutical products to specific physician segments in the United States , the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico (the "Territory").
2. CRD is in the business of distributing pharmaceutical products to wholesalers, specialty distributors, physicians, clinics, hospitals, retail pharmacies, and other health care providers in the Territory, and of providing Information Systems and other services that support its customers' use of its distribution capabilities (collectively, the "Services").
3. CP desires to engage CRD as its exclusive distribution agent (described below) for the pharmaceutical products described on the exhibits attached hereto (each, a "Product") and, with respect to each Product, to perform certain other services described in this agreement, all upon the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement. This agreement is being entered into pursuant to a letter of intent from CRD dated April 5, 2000 , which was accepted and executed by CP as of April 10, 2000 . Statement of Agreement CP and CRD
(the "Parties") hereby acknowledge the accuracy of the above Background Information and agree as follows:
1. Appointment.
Upon the terms and conditions described in this agreement, CP hereby appoints CRD as its exclusive distribution agent in and for the Territory for the distribution of each Product (including samples) to CP's direct customers ("Customers"). The Services for each Product or group of Products identified on the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement shall be implemented pursuant to the Implementation Schedule included in such exhibit (each, an " Implementation Schedule "), with the distribution of each Product to begin on the date specified in the Implementation Schedule for such Product (the " Commencement Date "). In performing the Services, CRD will provide, at its discretion, the services of either the Vice President and General Manager , Director of Sales or other such representative as mutually agreed to by CP and CRD . CRD's designated representative will be the primary liaison with CP , unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
2. Product Supply . Warehousing and
Storage. CP shall ship each Product to CRD at CRD 's distribution facility currently located at Central Boulevard , Suite 100 , La Vergne , TN 37086 or to such other distribution facility as may be designated by CRD (individually or collectively, the " CRD Facility ") and agreed by CP , in sufficient quantities to meet CP's anticipated Customer orders. CRD shall visually inspect each shipment of each Product for external damage or loss in transit and, in the event of any such damage or loss, shall, within a commercially reasonable period of time following discovery of such damage or loss by CRD, notify CP that such damage or loss has occurred. With respect to each Product or group of Products identified on the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement: (a) CP shall, during the Product Term set forth on such exhibit, provide CRD with applicable regulatory storage and handling requirements and projections of such Product's volume requirements not less often than quarterly, at least 30 days in advance of the quarter and written instructions setting forth the storage and handling requirements applicable to such Product; and (b) CRD shall store such Product in the CRD Facility and comply with applicable regulatory storage and handling requirements and the storage and handling requirements applicable to such Product, as such requirements may be supplemented or amended from time to time in writing by CP with reasonable prior notice to CRD and its prior approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If CRD notifies CP in good faith that any such supplement or amendment will require any material modification to the CRD Facility or CRD's procedures or requirements which are unique and specific to the Product or the Services resulting in a material increase to CRD's anticipated costs and expenses, then CP and CRD shall consult regarding such reasonable costs and expenses (hereinafter, simply "unique costs") and CP shall pay such unique costs resulting from that modification. CP shall pay all costs and expenses of delivering each Product to the CRD Facility . CRD will never take title to any Product, even when such Product is located at the CRD Facility .
3. Standard Product Distribution .
With respect to each Product or group of Products identified on the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, and during the Product Term set forth on such exhibit, all Customer orders shall be taken by CRD as described in the Operating Guidelines (defined in §6, below). CRD shall confirm the receipt of and process each order and, so long as the ordered Product is then in stock at the CRD Facility and the orders are received no later than 2:00 p.m. local time at the CRD Facility , routinely have that order available for shipment within 24 hours of CRD's receipt of the order (exclusive of holidays and weekends) or such longer period as may be designated or permitted by CP. Customer orders will be delivered by a courier mutually chosen by CP and CRD. CRD will invoice CP for such handling services and freight cost on a monthly basis. CRD will use best efforts to manage any claims by CP against the courier, provided, however, that CP shall be responsible for all lost or damaged shipments. In addition, CP shall reimburse CRD for all documented costs and expenses of packaging material used for shipping the Product and all business forms unique to CP (e.g ., packing slips, invoices, etc.); provided that the use of such packaging material and business forms is authorized in advance by CP . Each Product shall be shipped on a "first expiration date, first out" basis or as otherwise directed by CP . In addition, CRD shall establish (and CP shall approve) procedures for the processing and shipment of emergency orders on weekends and holidays, provided that CP shall separately pay all increased costs resulting from such orders.
4. Product Prices .
With respect to each Product or group of Products identified in the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, CP shall, upon execution of such exhibit, deliver to CRD a price list for Customers who purchase such Product or Products (the " Customer Price List "). CP shall notify CRD of any change in the Customer Price List not less than 10 business days prior to the effective date of any such change. The Parties hereby acknowledge that CP, and not CRD, is the seller of each Product to Customers.
5. Financial Support Services .
a. Subject to Section 5(b), during each Product Term set forth on the Product-specific exhibits to this agreement, CRD shall perform the customer credit research, billing, cash application, collections, and reporting services described in the Operating Guidelines in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in such Operating Guidelines, as such policies and procedures may be supplemented or amended from time to time by CP with reasonable prior notice to CRD and with its prior approval (the " Financial Support Services "); provided that if CRD notifies CP in good faith that any such supplement or amendment will require any material modification to CRD's procedures or requirements for providing the Services, then CP shall pay all unique costs resulting from that modification.
b. CRD shall have
no obligation to pay for any Product or to reimburse CP for any losses incurred in connection with the failure of any Customer to pay CP any amount due.
C. Customers shall be directed to make payments for the Products in accordance with the Operating Guidelines .
6. Operating Guidelines.
As soon as practicable after the date of this agreement, CRD and CP shall develop operating guidelines relating to the Products and the Services, which guidelines (the "Operating Guidelines") will be in writing, in a form satisfactory to CRD and CP , and will define and document the responsibilities of CRD and CP in support of the relationship described in this agreement. All Operating Guidelines shall be developed and implemented in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner, subject to the qualifications set forth therein; provided that in the event of any inconsistency between the Operating Guidelines and the other provisions of this agreement (including each Product-specific exhibit to this agreement), the other provisions of this agreement shall control. The Operating Guidelines may be amended from time to time upon the mutual agreement of CRD and CP .
7. Returns and Recalls.
Pursuant to this agreement and any applicable Operating Guidelines, CRD shall assist in the processing of Product returns (excluding recall returns, which will be dealt with as described below) in coordination with the third party returns company chosen by CP to facilitate return of Product. No such assistance will involve handling by CRD of the Product being returned. The fees to be paid to CRD for these return services are described in Section 8. CRD shall process Customer Product return authorizations and credits as set forth in the Operating Guidelines . The fee for such Services by CRD will be included as a part of the Customer Service Fees described in Section 8. If CP is required to recall, or on its own initiative recalls, any Product, CRD will assist CP with that recall as reasonably requested by CP; provided that CP shall pay to CRD an amount equal to all costs incurred by CRD in connection with any such recall.
8. Fees.
As compensation for services being provided by CRD in connection with the development and implementation of the infrastructure for the relationship contemplated by this agreement, including CRD 's information system development (separate from the Information System Access Fees described below) and implementation for CP's use, CP shall pay CRD a one-time implementation fee of [ *** ] (the " Implementation Fee "), one-half of which shall be payable on the first anniversary of the date of this agreement and one-half of which shall be payable on the second anniversary of the date of this agreement. CP's obligation to pay the Implementation Fee is not contingent upon the acquisition by CP of any Product marketing and distribution rights and shall survive the termination of this agreement. However, the Implementation Fee shall not be due and payable if this Agreement is terminated early for any reason other than breach by CP . In addition, with respect to each Product or group of Products identified on the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, CP shall pay CRD , as compensation for the Services related to such Product or Products, the fees described in such exhibit (the "Fees"). CRD will use commercially reasonable efforts to keep total fees in line with industry standards. The Fees shall include:
a. Storage/Distribution Fees.
The Storage and Distribution Fees shall be in the amounts set forth in each applicable Product Exhibit. This component of the Fees shall cover storage of Product and distribution services, which fees (the "Storage and Distribution Fees"), with respect to each Product or group of Products identified on the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, shall be in the amount specified in such exhibit. The Storage Fees shall be based upon the average weekly number of pallets in storage. The Distribution Fees , for each calendar month during the Term of this Agreement, shall be based upon the aggregate number of units (or cases) shipped by CRD from the warehouse. CP shall be charged an initial price per unit or case (collectively referred to as "pick") on the first pick of each order placed by CP each month, and then a recurring amount per pick for each incremental pick shipped from the same order thereafter. For example, for the distribution of Reglan and Donnatal , on a monthly basis, CP shall be charged the sum of [ $120.00 ] per pick of each order of product shipped that month and the sum of [ $120.00 ] per pick for each incremental pick from the same order.
b. Information System
Access Fees . This component of the Fees shall cover CP's access to CRD 's or an affiliate of CRD 's standard Information Systems, consisting of the computer hardware and software and other components described in the attached Schedule 8(c)-1 (the "System"), and other services relating to CP's access to the System as described in Schedule 8(c)-1, which fees (the " System Access Fees "), with respect to each Product or group of Products identified on the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, shall be in the amount specified in such exhibit. Access to the System shall be provided pursuant to a System Access Agreement in the form of the attached Schedule 8(c)-2, which agreement (the "System Access Agreement") shall be executed by the Parties concurrently with this agreement. Access to the System shall be made available to CP's facility for each Product at the prices set forth in the exhibit for such Product, so long as CP first has in place a local area network sufficient to support all CP terminals and personal computers which will have access to the System and a centralized server sufficient for data storage related to CP's access to the System. All costs and expenses associated with establishing initial hook-up of all communication and electronic information lines necessary for interface of the System with CP's information systems located at CP's address set forth at the end of this agreement are included in the Implementation Fee and are separate from the services and costs and expenses covered by the System Access Fees . CP shall have sole responsibility for payment of all costs and expenses of maintaining all such communication and electronic information lines. CRD and CP shall each assign knowledgeable and qualified employees to facilitate the access to the System as contemplated by this agreement.
c. Financial Support Services Fees .
This component of the Fees shall be payment for cash application, collections and chargeback processing services (including chargeback system access) described in the Operating Guidelines , which fees (the " Financial Support Services Fees "), with respect to each Product or group of Products identified on the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, shall be in the amount specified in such exhibit.
d. Customer Service Fees .
This component of the Fees shall be payment for the customer services performed by CRD pursuant to the Operating Guidelines , which fees (the " Customer Support Fees "), with respect to each Product or group of Products identified in the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, shall be in the amount specified in such exhibit.
e. EDI Set-up, Maintenance,
Access Fees . This component of the Fees shall be payment for services related to the set-up and maintenance of Electronic Data Interchange ("EDI") transaction capabilities between CP and its Customers and access and use of a mutually agreed upon EDI provider. These fees are included in the System Access Fees described in 8(b) above. With respect to each Product or group of Products identified on the same Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, following the end of each calendar month with respect to Product Term set forth on such exhibit, CRD shall issue an invoice to CP for the Fees payable with respect to CRD's performance of the Services for the prior month. The Fees or other amounts owed to CRD by CP under this agreement shall be payable within 30 days of the date of CRD's invoice for such Fees or other amounts. The Fees shall be held firm for the first contract year. Thereafter, CRD shall adjust the price not more often than once per contract year by not more than the increase in the Producer Price Index - All Commodities published by the United States Department of Labor , Bureau of Statistics , as amended from time to time .
f. Notwithstanding the above Price Increase, if CRD can demonstrate that the costs for providing the Services have materially increased, or are likely to materially increase in the coming year due to the adoption of any applicable law or regulation, or any material change in the interpretation or administration thereof, then upon notice from CRD, the Parties agree to meet in good faith and negotiate a mutually acceptable adjustment to the Fees, which compensates CRD for the change.
. Term and Termination.
. The initial term of this agreement shall begin upon the day CP signs a letter of intent to acquire its first Product and shall continue for a period of three (3) years (the " Initial Term "), unless terminated earlier pursuant to this agreement. Thereafter, this agreement shall automatically renew for additional terms of one (1) year each, unless written notice of termination is given by either Party at least 90 days prior to the end of the Initial Term , or such other term, in which case this agreement shall terminate at the end of the relevant term. Any reference in this agreement to the "term of this agreement" shall include the Initial Term and any such renewal terms. Upon termination of this agreement or upon the written request of Client, all Product shall be expeditiously returned to the Client or a designee of the Client.
b. Either
Party shall have the right to terminate this agreement or any Product-specific exhibit to this agreement upon the breach by the other Party of a material provision of this agreement or such exhibit and that Party's failure to cure such breach within 60 days following written notice thereof from the non-breaching Party or, in the event such failure is not capable of being cured within such 60-day period, the non-breaching Party's failure to continue to diligently prosecute such cure thereafter; provided, that, with respect to any failure to make any payment when due under this agreement or any Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, such period in which to cure shall be reduced to 30 days
c. Either Party shall have the right to terminate this agreement or any Product-specific exhibit to this agreement immediately upon notice to the other Party following the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding (whether voluntary or involuntary) with respect to such other Party or its assets, the general assignment for the benefit of creditors by such other Party, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee or liquidator by or for such other Party
d. Sections 8 and Sections 14 through 17, inclusive, of this agreement shall survive the termination or expiration of this agreement and each Product-specific exhibit to this agreement, and except as set forth herein, no termination of this agreement or any Product-specific exhibit to this agreement shall affect any liabilities arising, or based upon acts or omissions occurring, prior to the date of such termination.
10. Audits.
In connection with any services being provided pursuant to this Agreement, CRD agrees to maintain written records and data during and after the term of this Agreement in compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements, including without limitation applicable requirements of the United States Food and Drug Administration . Further, CRD shall furnish CP within thirty (30) days following each March 31, June 30 , September 30 , and December 31 of each calendar year a complete and accurate statement for the immediately preceding calendar quarterly period of (a) the number of units of Products sold; (b) information as to returns actually credited; (c) current inventory levels for Products; and (d) such other information as CP may reasonably request. In order to verify compliance, CRD shall provide CP with such records and agrees to permit representatives of CP to visit facilities of CRD at which Services are being performed during normal business hours (i.e ., 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. local time ), upon 15 business days prior notice, to: (a) review and audit CRD 's records relating directly to Product received at and shipped from the CRD Facility ; and (b) conduct, together with representatives of CRD , an inventory of the Product at the CRD Facility .
11. Compliance With Laws.
Each Party shall conduct its activities in connection with this agreement in substantial compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations, and orders of governmental entities.
12. Representations and Warranties.
• Mutual Representations and Warranties. Each Party represents and warrants to the other that: (i) it has full power and authority to enter into this agreement and perform and observe all obligations and conditions to be performed or observed by it under this agreement without any restriction by any other agreement or otherwise; (ii) the execution, delivery and performance of this agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of that Party; and (iii) this agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of that Party.
• CP Representations and Warranties.
CP further represents and warrants to CRD that (i) each Product is and shall be manufactured in conformity with the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, and all other applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of governmental entities, and (ii) as of the effective date of any Product-specific exhibit hereto, CP will have (and will have provided CRD with written documentation in form reasonably satisfactory to CRD that CP has, as of such effective date) title to such Product or Products and the right to market and distribute such Product or Products as contemplated hereby
• CRD Representations and Warranties.
CRD hereby represents and warrants that it has the experience, capability and resources, including without limitation, sufficient personnel and supervisors, to perform the Services offered hereunder in a commercially reasonable manner in conformity with applicable regulations of any governmental authority, including the United States Food and Drug Administration . CRD further represent that it will at all times devote the necessary personnel and supervisors to perform the Services in such a manner. CRD shall not make any representations, warranties, or guarantees to Customers with respect to the Products that are inconsistent with information provided by CP to CRD, including without limitation, representations, warranties, and guarantees concerning specifications, features, efficacy, prices, or availability of the Products.
13. Taxes.
CP shall pay when due all sales, use, gross receipts, excise, personal property taxes associated with each Product (excluding any personal property tax associated with CRD's equipment used in connection with the Services), and other taxes or similar charges now or hereafter imposed as a result of the transactions contemplated by this agreement, none of which have been included in the fees payable to CRD under this agreement; provided that the amounts payable by CP under this section shall not include taxes based on the net income of CRD.
14. Master Agreement .
This agreement is being entered into pursuant to the Strategic Alliance Agreement dated June 6, 2000 , between Card Health (as defined below) and CP (the " Master Agreement "), and this agreement (including any and all exhibits hereto, whether entered into now or hereafter) constitutes an Addendum, as defined in the Master Agreement . In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this agreement (including any and all exhibits hereto) and the terms of the Master Agreement , the terms of this agreement shall govern. For purposes of this agreement, " Card Health " means the following affiliated operating companies: Card MarketForce , a division of Key, Inc ., an Ohio corporation (Dublin , OH); CRD Logistics , Inc . , an Ohio corporation (Dublin, OH); and any other subsidiary of Card Health , Inc . , an Ohio corporation (" CHI "), as may be designated by CHI and agreed by client in writing.
15. Indemnification.
Each Party shall indemnify and hold harmless the other and its parent and affiliates, and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, and representatives from and against all claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs, and expenses (including without limitation reasonable attorneys' fees) arising directly or indirectly out of any failure of that Party to perform and observe fully all obligations and conditions to be performed or observed by that Party pursuant to this agreement or any breach of any warranty made by that Party in this agreement. CP further agrees to indemnify and hold harmless CRD and its parent and affiliates and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives from and against all claims, liability, losses, damages, costs, and expenses (including without limitation reasonable attorney's fees) arising directly or indirectly out of injury or death to person or property alleged to have been caused by any defect in any Product. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, OR ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT TO THE CONTRARY, NEITHER PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL , INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR OTHER SIMILAR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, AND IN NO EVENT SHALL CRD 'S LIABILITY HEREUNDER EXCEED CRD 'S INSURANCE LIMITS SET FORTH BELOW IN SECTION 17(b)(i).
16. Insurance.
a. Promptly after CP acquires rights to distribute its first Product and for as long thereafter as necessary to cover claims resulting from this agreement, CP shall obtain and maintain: (i) product liability and commercial general liability insurance having a limit of not less than $10 million ; and (ii) property damage insurance at replacement value for each Product located at the CRD Facility or in transit to or from the CRD Facility , pursuant to one or more insurance policies with reputable insurance carriers. Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries shall be designated as "additional insureds" under the product liability and commercial general liability insurance policy(ies), and as "loss payees" under the property damage insurance policy(ies). Prior to CRD's receipt of Product, CP shall deliver to CRD certificates evidencing such insurance. CP shall not cause or permit such insurance to be canceled or modified to materially reduce its scope or limits of coverage during the term of this agreement or thereafter as provided above. Except for any losses resulting from the negligence or intentional misconduct of CRD , CP shall bear all risk of loss or damage with respect to each Product, whether located at the CRD Facility or otherwise.
0 Promptly after CP acquires rights to distribute its first Product and for as long thereafter as necessary to cover claims resulting from this agreement, CRD shall obtain and maintain: (i) product liability and commercial general liability insurance having a limit of not less than $1 million ; and (ii) property damage insurance at replacement value for each Product located at the CRD Facility or in transit to or from the CRD Facility , pursuant to one or more insurance policies with reputable insurance carriers. CP shall be designated as "additional insureds" under the product liability and commercial general liability insurance policy(ies), and as "loss payees" under the property damage insurance policy(ies). Prior to CRD'S receipt of Product, CRD shall deliver to CP certificates evidencing such insurance. CRD shall not cause or permit such insurance to be canceled or modified to materially reduce its scope or limits of coverage during the term of this agreement or thereafter as provided above.
17. Relationship of the Parties.
The relationship among the Parties is and shall be that of independent contractors. This agreement does not establish or create a partnership or joint venture among the Parties.
18. Notices.
Any notice or other communication required or desired to be given to any Party under this agreement shall be delivered in writing to the address or facsimile number set forth beneath the authorized signatures on this agreement and shall be deemed given: (a) three business days after such notice is deposited in the United States mail, first-class postage prepaid, and addressed to that Party at the address for such Party set forth at the end of this agreement; (b) one business day after delivered to Federal Express , Airborne, or any other similar express delivery service for delivery to that Party at that address; or (c) when sent by facsimile transmission, with electronic confirmation, to that Party at its facsimile number set forth at the end of this agreement. Any notice delivered by facsimile transmission will be deemed delivered upon electronic confirmation provided the notice is also deposited in the U.S. mail, first-class postage prepaid. Any Party may change its address or facsimile number for notices under this agreement by giving the other Parties notice of such change.
19. Alternative Dispute Resolution .
The Parties agree to use good faith efforts to resolve all disputes within ninety (60) days of written notice that such a dispute exists. If dispute under this Agreement cannot be resolved by the Parties within such sixty (60) day period, the Parties agree to refer the matter to one executive from each Party not directly involved in the dispute for review and resolution. A copy of the terms of this Agreement, agreed upon facts and areas of disagreement, and a concise summary of the basis for each side's contentions will be provided to both executives who shall review the same, confer, and attempt to reach a mutual resolution of the issue within forty-five (45) days after receipt of the materials referenced above. If the matter has not been resolved within such forty-five (45) day period, either or both Parties may pursue resolution of the matter through litigation or other process available under law or equity.
20. Remedies.
Each Party acknowledges that in the event of any violation by that Party of any of the provisions of Section 14 of this agreement or Article III ., Sections D or E of the Master Agreement , the other Party would suffer irreparable harm and its remedies at law would be inadequate. Accordingly, in the event of any violation or attempted violation of any such provisions by either Party, the other Party shall be entitled to a temporary restraining order, temporary and permanent injunctions, specific performance, and other equitable relief, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage or the posting of any bond. The rights and remedies of each Party under this agreement shall be cumulative and in addition to any other rights or remedies available to such Party, whether under any other agreement, at law, or in equity.
21. Governing Law.
All questions concerning the validity or meaning of this agreement or relating to the rights and obligations of the Parties with respect to performance under this agreement shall be construed and resolved under the laws of the State of Tennessee , without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. The parties agree that any claims asserted in any legal proceeding by one party against the other shall be commenced and maintained in any state or federal court in Nashville, Tennessee or Columbus, Ohio and the parties submit to the jurisdiction of these courts.
22. Severability.
The intention of the Parties is to comply fully with all laws and public policies, and this agreement shall be construed consistently with all laws and public policies to the extent possible. If and to the extent that any court of competent jurisdiction determines that it is impossible to construe any provision of this agreement consistently with any law or public policy and consequently holds that provision to be invalid, such holding shall in no way affect the validity of the other provisions of this agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
23. Force Majeure .
If the performance of any part of this agreement by either Party shall be affected for any length of time by fire or other casualty, government restrictions, war, riots, strikes or labor disputes, lock out, transportation delays, acts of God, or any other causes which are beyond the control of the Parties, such Party shall not be responsible for delay or failure of performance of this agreement for such length of time, provided, however, that the obligation of one Party to pay amounts due to any other Party shall not be subject to the provisions of this section
24. Complete
Agreement. This agreement (together with the Master Agreement , the Product-specific exhibits hereto, and the other documents referred to herein, all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference) contains the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous discussions, negotiations, representations, warranties, or agreements relating to the subject matter of this agreement. CRD and CP agree to comply with the obligations of confidentiality set forth in Article III , Section E of the Master Agreement . No changes to this agreement shall be made or be binding on either Party unless made in writing and signed by both Parties.
25. Successors.
This Agreement may not be assigned or transferred by a party without the prior written consent of the other party hereto, provided, however, that either party may assign this Agreement to any subsidiary, affiliate or an entity which acquires substantially all of it's assets and business that is not in direct competition with CRD . Any such assignment shall not materially or adversely affect the rights or obligations of either party to this Agreement.
+--------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| COREPHARMA, INC.                           | CRD LOGISTICS , INC.                           |
+--------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| J. K. Kallas                               | Frank Coons                                    |
+--------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| J.K Kallas Chief Executive Officer         | Frank Coons Vice President and General Manager |
+--------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 109 10th Street South Nashville , TN 37203 | Central Blvd , # 100 Cleveland , OH 44101      |
+--------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
Exhibit A
CumPharma Proposed Fee Schedule
( Pricing Table )
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| Program Implementation |                                                                | Cost     |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| One Time Start-up Fee  |                                                                | $ 5,000  |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        |                                                                |          |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| Distribution Services  |                                                                |          |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Monthly per pallet ambient storage                             |          | $ 100    |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Per bottle ambient product pick/pack/stage - first bottle      |          | $ 120    |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Per bottle ambient product pick/pack/stage - each add'1 bottle |          | $ 75     |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Per unit return goods processing                               |          | $ 50     |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Monthly distribution system access and use                     |          | $ 500    |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Monthly account management fee                                 |          | $ 120    |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Packing/Shipping Supplies                                      |          | $ 5,000  |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Shipping Charges                                               |          | $ 15,000 |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        |                                                                |          |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| Customer Service       |                                                                | $ 25,000 |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Monthly fixed fee                                              |          | $ 15     |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Per order fee                                                  |          | $ 1,500  |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Preprinted Forms                                               |          |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        |                                                                |          |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| Financial Services     |                                                                |          |          |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Monthly fixed fee Accounts Receivable Management               |          | $ 5,000  |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Per order fee Accounts Receivable Management                   |          | $ 50     |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Monthly fixed fee Chargeback Management                        |          | $ 10,000 |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Per submission Chargeback Processing & Government Reporting    |          | $ 10     |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
|                        | Preprinted Forms                                               |          | $ 1,500  |
+------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
